The first thing that we're gonna do if we
want to get a book listing because we've
got a cover, I want these two, I don't
want them to just be big spaghetti things.
So I'm gonna add a little
bit of styling in here.
And we're gonna create
a new folder called styles.
And we'll call this book.module.css.
We're using the CSS module approach
because it gives a scoped styles without
having to install a CSS and JS library or
learn some specialty syntax of CSS.
This is just plain old CSS, what you've
always used, we just get to trust that
it's gonna be scoped because of the way
that CSS modules are implemented.
So in here, I've got a listing,
that's gonna be the actual book wrapper.
We want that to be display
flex because I want
the cover and
the details to live side by side.
And we'll give it a gap of 2 RAM and
a margin, bottom of 2 RAM.
Then we want a heading.
And the heading,
I'm just gonna set a margin of 0 because.
Otherwise, what will happen is the heading
will get bumped below the book cover and
it'll have this kind of weird offset,
and I don't wanna deal with that.
So we're going to do that.
And that's good enough all I want is for
this to just not be completely unstyled.
So then I can create a template for
this because remember we do
use that Create Page API,
we need to have a template to use.
So I'm going to create
a template called book.
And in this, we're going to import
everything as react from react.
And then we're going to import graph QL.
And my god, stop helping,
and link from Gatsby.
And finally, we're gonna use that
Gatsby image, that we set up.
So let's import Gatsby image, and
get image, from a Gatsby plugin image.
And then I am also going to import
those styles we just created so
listing and heading from our styles.
So let's get the book.module.css.
And if we wanna get a query so
this one is gonna be a query
because it includes the book ID.
So we're gonna have our graph QL.
And inside of that, let's go out here and
build a query for this.
So this is running so
I can come over here.
And I wanna get a book so let's close up
author and instead we're gonna get book.
And I want my book to come in with
a I don't need the ISPI, do I?
I want a name.
I want the author name and slug.
I want the series and the series order.
And then I want the cover.
And I want the cover to
have a child image sharp.
And get the image data, and
we can set this to be whatever,
am just gonna leave all
the defaults because it's fine.
But I am gonna restrict the width to 150,
because I want the cover to
be pretty small on the page.
And so once we've set that
I can change this over to
like say book will get
the ID equal string and
then we would wanna
filter by the ID as well.
So I have this and we wanna it to equal
and we'll say it's gonna equal the ID.
So I can copy this.
Bring it over here.
In this is going to get us all
the details about our book.
And while I'm thinking about it,
let's also get our biolink in here.
So now I have my data we're going to
get the individual book that we're
trying to query for, and
we can build our components.
So export default function, book page,
and we'll get data from
our graph qL query.
Here, let's extract the book
out of that data so
data.book, and then we can
return a whole bunch of markup.
So let's get a fragment setup.
And then we will set the class
name to be our listing,
because that's the book listing.
And then we are going to
use this Gatsby image and
we'll pass in the image
of from the book cover.
And so this get images a helper
from Gatsby to like dive in and
get the image sharp and the Gatsby image
data and all the things that it needs so
that we don't have to remember
to type all that out.
And then we can set the alt.
I'm going to cop out a little bit here and
call it the book name.
Probably better alt text should be
written and we can set the h1 I'm
going to set this needs
a class name Of heading.
Otherwise, we'll get that awkward
top margin that I don't want and
we'll use the book.name as our h1.
Let's set the author here.
And we're going to link to our author.
So in here,
we're going to link to book.author.slug.
And then we wanna do book.author.name,
right?
So we're just going to using this data,
nothing too out of the ordinary here,
and then we're going to
link through the book.
Series, if there is a book series,
we're going to add some extra information.
So if there's a book series,
we'll say this is book series order.
Don't need that dollar sign there.
This is book series order
of the book series.
And then finally below that,
we can just start closing things up.
So let's close up that div.
That one's already closed, okay?
And then we'll take them back to a yet
to be created all books listing.
And we'll just do the same thing, a left
arrow, HTML entity and back to all books.
Okay, so now that this is created,
we can actually use it.
So let's get into Gatsby node.
And let's make this thing work.
So what we're going to have to do is
pull in, in create pages I'm gonna start
collapsing these so that it's a little
easier to see what we're working on.
There's another helper that you get
in create pages called graph QL.
And this allows us to make
a query against our graph QL data
layer while we are inside
of the create pages API.
So by doing this,
that means I can make a query down here.
Now this is a little bit
unintuitive because in
Gatsby components, it's a template tag.
In create pages, it's a function.
So it's otherwise exactly the same.
We're just going to get query for
all of our books.
And what I want in this is all book.
We'll get the nodes.
We will get the ID,
the series, and the name.
All right, and I'm going to get the result
of that we need to await this or
else would get a promise.
And that means I need to make this async.
This is a cool thing about Gatsby is
the API is can be run synchronously or
asynchronously.
So if you ever want to await something,
you can just toss that async in front of
it, and you'll be able to do that instead
of having to do promise juggling.
Once we've got that result,
we can set up a little bit of
logic to determine our books.
So let's get the books
themselves out of here.
And that's going to be
result.data.allbook.nodes.
Okay, then let's loop through them so
books for each.
And we're using for each year because
we don't return anything, right?
That's when you would use for each book.
All right, so we've got our books,
we're looping and
I'm gonna start by getting the book slug.
So as you identified,
whoever asked that question,
we do indeed need to make that easier.
Why is that?
That's not what we want at all.
We just wants liquify like that.
Let's put that up here.
So we've got slugify and
we're going to slugify the book.name.
And again, we're gonna go lower, true.
And if we have a book series
If it is, no,
then we can create a page and
that will be a path,
it's gonna be book slug.
We're going to set the component
to be required.resolve.
And we'll do source templates, book.js.
And for the context, we're going
to include the ID of book.id and
that so that we can look up the book
when we get into that template.
Remember we needed to have this variable.
That's how we're getting it in
we pass that ID as context and
now we actually have it available to us.
So that will create our
pages in that place.
Then, if we do have a series I'm
going to create a series slug,
and we'll slugify the book.series.
And again, we'll go lower through and
we can create the page.
And I'm realizing now that
this is ripe for refactoring.
So this one would go series slug.
And then again, it's the template in
the book and again, it's the context ID.
So I don't know why I didn't just
check for the slug or something, but
it's okay, me being good at this type
of code is not the point of this work.
[LAUGH] But we are going to get what
we need here of creating the page and
we'll get the right template and
the books get created at the right slug,
no matter what we are doing there.
And I caught a typo before it broke
everything, what a great day?
So let's stop and restart because
we just updated our Gatsby node.
And that's going to take
us out to local host here.
And what I want to be able to
do is to get to all of my books.
So what should happen
is once this reloads,
I should be able to click into
one of these books and see it.
So let's see how that goes,
I'm going to click in.
And we're just waiting for this to finish.
There it goes.
All right, we refresh.
And there is our book.
Okay, I can see something I screwed up.
I needed to put all of this into a div so
that it floats properly.
So let's do that.
There we got that looks better,
that's more like what we want.
So now we have the ability
to display our books.
They're sort of styled so
that they look at least somewhat legible.
And then we come back to this slash
books page, which is not yet created.
So I'm going to create
one more page here and
this one can just be a regular
old listing of books.
So we're going to import
everything as react from react.
We're going to import, graph qL and link.
From Gatsby, we're gonna import slugify.
I'm really, now that it's been pointed
out to me I'm feeling very foolish about
having duplicated all this slugify work.
And we're gonna do this as
a static query again so
let's export default function books page.
And let's get the useStaticQuery
in here again.
So I'm gonna get data
out of useStaticQuery.
That's gonna be our tag
to graphql template.
And inside of it, I wanna get all books.
So we're gonna run a query for
all book nodes and
then inside I want the ID,
the name, the author,
the name and slug of the author,
and the series name.
And that's our graph QL query.
Typos all over the place.
Let's make that better.
Okay, then down here I
can get the book out so
let's get books equals data.allbook.nodes,
and then we can do our markup.
So what I wanna do for this is again,
we just wrap it in a fragment.
We will stand up a heading, says books.
And then we'll list through our books.
So we'll say book stop map book and for
each of these we are going
to do a little bit of logic.
And that logic is gonna
be to create a book slug.
So again, we will slugify
the book.name lower true.
Then we're gonna do this whole thing
about generating the path again.
So if book.series
Then we wanna create the series slug.
And that's gonna be slugify book.series,
lower true.
And then we'll set
the path to be book,
series slug, book slug,
or else we will set it
to be path equals book slug.
Okay, once we've got that,
we can return our actual markup
which will be a list item with a key,
that'll be the book ID.
And then we're gonna set
a link to the path and
that's gonna be the book name.
And then we also want to say by link to,
and that's going to be too.
We want to make this forces to the root
because the author slug isn't a path.
It's just the author slug so
if we only put an author slug what
would happen is it would
make the links relative.
So we're going to link to the author's
page with book.author.name.
And that reminds me that we
need to go book.author.slug.
Okay, so you save all that and now,
assuming I did all this right,
which I think we did, I should be
able to reload and get our books.
Okay, so let's do a quick check.
We're on the books page, I click into
a given book back to all books I go
to an author page, I get a list
of their books go to all authors.
And here we are.
Okay, so we're authors nk jemisin,
click to a book.
We get the book, we go back to all books.
We get a list.
Click to an author.
This is wonderful.
Look how great this is.
We have built ourselves
a book club website.